contents/blog/slurm-intro/index.md, before:

---
title: Introduction to SLURM
date: 2024-05-26
template: blog
image: ./image.jpg
banner: ./banner.jpg
description: Simple Linux Utility for Resource Management (SLURM)
---

# What is SLURM?
[SLURM](https://slurm.schedmd.com/quickstart.html) is an acronym for `S`imple `L`inux `U`tility for `R`esource `M`anagement

# What does it do?
- SLURM is an open-source **Job Scheduler** for small and large linux clusters and unix-like kernels
- SLURM is fault-tolerant and highly scalable cluster management system
- SLURM is relatively self-contained with the components it needs to run

## 3 Key functions
- `Function 1` => `Resource Allocation` (compute / storage)
- `Function 2` => Framework for monitoring the work along with basic functionlity of start/stop on allocated nodes a.k.a `Accounting`
- `Function 3` => Orchestrates `Resource Contention` by managing the pending jobs/workloads submitted

# What are the important components of SLURM?
- `slurmctld`, the central controller monitoring all the compute nodes that are registered as part of the cluster. Typically this is run dedicated management node
- `slurmd`, the daemon that runs on each compute node


Picture Source: https://slurm.schedmd.com/arch.gif
![](./arch.gif)


# What are different entities in SLURM and How are they managed?

- **Nodes** - Actual Compute nodes
- **Partitions** - Logical grouping of nodes a.k.a `Job Queues` with an mix of constraints (job size limit / job time limit), priority
- **Jobs** - Allocations of resources assigned to a user for a specified amount of time. Logical groups of job steps
- **Job Steps** - sets of tasks with in a job. Typically there are parallel tasks

Picture Source: https://slurm.schedmd.com/entities.gif
![](./entities.gif)


# Finally the list of important commands

Ordered in the most frequently used or relevant
- `sbatch` - to submit a job for eventual execution
- `srun` - submit job for execution in real time. It could even be used to initiate job steps in real time
- `scancel` - to cancel a pending or running job step or job (all job steps)
- `squeue` - state of jobs/job steps
- `sinfo` - show the state of partitions and nodes as report
- `sview` - GUI to display information for jobs/parititions and nodes
- `sstat` - info about resource utilization by a running job/job step
- `sshare` - info about fairshare usage. Only available in conjuction to priority/multifactor plugin
- `sprio` - details of the factors/components/constraints affecting a job's priority
- `scontrol` - admin tool to view/modify the state of slurm
- `sbcast` - transfer a file between local storage on nodes with in a job allocation. This works like in a p2p fashion and simulates diskless nodes and improved performance relative to shared FS
- `sattach` - attach stdin / stdout / stderror along with sending signal to an already running job
- `salloc` - allocate resources in real time to the jobs. This spawns a shell with allocated resources and `srun` commands with in this shell is used to launch parallel task
- `sacct` - report job or job step information about active/completed jobs

Commit message:

Adding the blog showing the demo of slurm on aws ec2 ubuntu instance

contents/blog/slurm-intro/index.md, after:

---
title: Introduction to SLURM
date: 2024-05-26
template: blog
image: ./image.jpg
banner: ./banner.jpg
description: Simple Linux Utility for Resource Management (SLURM)
---


# What is SLURM?
[SLURM](https://slurm.schedmd.com/quickstart.html) is an acronym for `S`imple `L`inux `U`tility for `R`esource `M`anagement

SLURM is a free and versatile tool that  streamlines job scheduling and resource allocation on Linux-based clusters.  Imagine having dozens or even hundreds of compute nodes –  SLURM ensures efficient utilization by:

- **Resource Allocation**: Granting users exclusive or non-exclusive access to compute nodes for specific durations.
- **Job Scheduling & Execution**: Providing a framework for launching and monitoring jobs, often involving parallel processing techniques like MPI (Message Passing Interface).
- **Queue Management**: Maintaining a queue of submitted jobs, prioritizing them based on predefined rules, and ensuring fair access to resources => Resource contention

# Why use SLURM?
- SLURM is an open-source **Job Scheduler** for small and large linux clusters and unix-like kernels
- SLURM is fault-tolerant and highly scalable cluster management system
- SLURM is relatively self-contained with the components it needs to run


# What are Important components of SLURM?
- `slurmctld`, the central controller monitoring all the compute nodes that are registered as part of the cluster. Typically this is run dedicated management node
- `slurmd`, the daemon that runs on each compute node


Picture Source: https://slurm.schedmd.com/arch.gif
![](./arch.gif)


# What are different entities in SLURM ?

- **Nodes** - Actual Compute nodes
- **Partitions** - Logical grouping of nodes a.k.a `Job Queues` with an mix of constraints (job size limit / job time limit), priority
- **Jobs** - Allocations of resources assigned to a user for a specified amount of time. Logical groups of job steps
- **Job Steps** - sets of tasks with in a job. Typically there are parallel tasks

Picture Source: https://slurm.schedmd.com/entities.gif
![](./entities.gif)


# Finally the list of important commands

Ordered in the most frequently used or relevant
- `sbatch` - to submit a job for eventual execution
- `srun` - submit job for execution in real time. It could even be used to initiate job steps in real time
- `scancel` - to cancel a pending or running job step or job (all job steps)
- `squeue` - state of jobs/job steps
- `sinfo` - show the state of partitions and nodes as report
- `sview` - GUI to display information for jobs/parititions and nodes
- `sstat` - info about resource utilization by a running job/job step
- `sshare` - info about fairshare usage. Only available in conjuction to priority/multifactor plugin
- `sprio` - details of the factors/components/constraints affecting a job's priority
- `scontrol` - admin tool to view/modify the state of slurm
- `sbcast` - transfer a file between local storage on nodes with in a job allocation. This works like in a p2p fashion and simulates diskless nodes and improved performance relative to shared FS
- `sattach` - attach stdin / stdout / stderror along with sending signal to an already running job
- `salloc` - allocate resources in real time to the jobs. This spawns a shell with allocated resources and `srun` commands with in this shell is used to launch parallel task
- `sacct` - report job or job step information about active/completed jobs


Recommended exercise to go through SLURM demo on EC2 instance [SLURM demo on AWS Ubuntu 22.04 EC2 instance](https://www.narenvadapalli.com/blog/slurm-on-aws-ubuntu-ec2/)
