contents/blog/generating-token-for-github-runner-registration/index.md, before:

---
title: Token generation for Registering Self Hosted Github Runner
date: 2023-03-21
template: blog
image: ./image.jpg
banner: ./banner.jpg
description: Explains how to generate a token using github API to be used in turn with Github self hosted runner registration
---

## Github Personal Access token (Classic) Generation

You Need to sign in to Github org account by clicking on https://github.com/settings/tokens.

The token that was used with `config.cmd` (REF: self-hosted-github-runner-registration-process) is a one time registration token and we would have to generate a new token for each new self hosted github runner. But fortunately, there seems to be the required API calls with github to generate the token, that would be valid for an hour

REF: https://docs.github.com/en/rest/actions/self-hosted-runners?apiVersion=2022-11-28#create-a-registration-token-for-an-organization


![](./1_gh_classic_access_token_repo_and_admin.jpg)
![](./2_gh_classic_access_token_repo_and_admin.jpg)

Copy/backup the token for it to be used in the next step

![](./3_gh_classic_access_token_repo_and_admin.jpg)


## Token Generation using Github's REST API for registering self hosted runner

Following would capture the Token in to a variable called $token when run in a Powershell.

Remember to replace the following in the command below with a Github Personal Access Token that has both `repo` and `admin:org` permissions
- `<<GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN_REDACTED>>`
- `<<GITHUB_ORG>>`

```
$token=$(Invoke-RestMethod -Method Post `
  -Uri https://api.github.com/orgs/<<GITHUB_ORG>>/actions/runners/registration-token `
  -Headers @{
    "Accept" = "application/vnd.github+json"
    "Authorization" = "Bearer <<GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN_REDACTED"
    "X-GitHub-Api-Version" = "2022-11-28"
  }).token
```

Print the token to check it
```
$token
```

Commit message:

Updates with references to each other blog pages for github self hosted runner registration

contents/blog/generating-token-for-github-runner-registration/index.md, after:

---
title: Token generation for Registering Self Hosted Github Runner via REST API
date: 2023-03-21
template: blog
image: ./image.jpg
banner: ./banner.jpg
description: Explains how to generate a token using github API to be used in turn with Github self hosted runner registration
---

## Motivation

w.r.t https://www.narenvadapalli.com/blog/self-hosted-github-runner-registration-process/, while registering a windows host as github self hosted runner, you need to generate a Token for registration.

This blog will take you through the process of generating the token, using Github REST API

## Github Personal Access token (Classic) Generation

You Need to sign in to Github org account by clicking on https://github.com/settings/tokens.

The token that was used with `config.cmd` (REF: self-hosted-github-runner-registration-process) is a one time registration token and we would have to generate a new token for each new self hosted github runner. But fortunately, there seems to be the required API calls with github to generate the token, that would be valid for an hour

REF: https://docs.github.com/en/rest/actions/self-hosted-runners?apiVersion=2022-11-28#create-a-registration-token-for-an-organization


![](./1_gh_classic_access_token_repo_and_admin.jpg)
![](./2_gh_classic_access_token_repo_and_admin.jpg)

Copy/backup the token for it to be used in the next step

![](./3_gh_classic_access_token_repo_and_admin.jpg)


## Token Generation using Github's REST API for registering self hosted runner

Following would capture the Token in to a variable called $token when run in a Powershell.

Remember to replace the following in the command below with a Github Personal Access Token that has both `repo` and `admin:org` permissions
- `<<GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN_REDACTED>>`
- `<<GITHUB_ORG>>`

```
$token=$(Invoke-RestMethod -Method Post `
  -Uri https://api.github.com/orgs/<<GITHUB_ORG>>/actions/runners/registration-token `
  -Headers @{
    "Accept" = "application/vnd.github+json"
    "Authorization" = "Bearer <<GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN_REDACTED"
    "X-GitHub-Api-Version" = "2022-11-28"
  }).token
```

Print the token to check it
```
$token
```
